Market sizing or guesstimate is one of
the most popular question types in
Consulting case interviews there's an up
to 70% chance that you will see one in
an interview and over the course of the
three to five interviews every candidate
has to go through it's close to 100%
chance that you'll see one at least once
for years we have been talking to
different candidates as well as experts
about this and the result is a magical
step-by-step approach that can be
perfectly applied to nail any Market
sizing or guesstimate question
add to that is a set of easy to follow
but very impactful tips and tricks to
gain even more positive impression which
can very well be the difference between
actually getting the off offer versus
almost getting it all coming up now on
this Market sizing and guesstimate guide
[Music]
video hi my name is Kim Tran I'm a a
former McKenzie consultant and the
founder of the platform management
consulting prep you have probably known
me through this amazing video series so
let's get right into it what is a
guesstimate and Market sizing question
well in real life whenever Consultants
need a number so hard to get a guessing
and estimating method is used to come up
with a good enough value this method is
called guesstimating guesstimate
questions in case interviews test just
that when a guesstimate question ask for
the the size of a market it's then
called a market sizing question however
in terms of the approach there's no
difference between the two what is
evaluated aligning with the overall case
interview Spirit the final value in
guesstimate and Market sizing questions
is not that important usually
interviewers don't have a number in mind
they just want to see your approach
during the
process so this is the magical approach
there are four steps in tackling any
guest to and Market sizing question step
one clarify the question make sure you
and the interviewer are on the same page
on every assumption and every
interpretation of any and all
terms step two break the problems into
smaller and easier to swallow
pieces step three use estimation and
judgment to solve each piece step four
consolidate all of those pieces into a
final result
let's illustrate this approach by an
interactive example the question is how
many people wear red in New York on a
typical Monday let's solve this question
using the four-step formula step one
clarification there are at least three
vague terms and Concepts we should
clarify in this question first by New
York does the interviewer refer to the
state of New York or the city of New
York second what does do wear red really
mean third if a person wearing red goes
out more than once do we count them
twice let's say we do that and here are
clarifications from the interviewer
number one New York refers to the New
York City metropolitan area number two
if any piece of clothing on a person is
red he or she is considered as wearing
red number three don't count them
twice step two breaking down the
problems this step is very important
since it would set an agenda for your
answer you need to identify
mathematically which factors would
determine the number of people wearing
red in New York City on a typical Monday
here's an example of how it works one
how many people are there in New York
two what are the chances that people
will wear red this depends on two
smaller factors 2.1 how many pieces of
clothing people wear and two 2.2 the
chances of One Piece being
read step three solving each piece now
let's use your good sense of judgment
and estimation to solve each part for
one New York City's population is 20
million for two let's solve its two
components for 2.1 the number of pieces
of clothing depends on how often each
person goes out we further break down
the population into three groups group
one those staying at home wear two
pieces of clothing a pants and shirt
let's say only 5% of the population do
this on a typical Monday group two is
those going out once let's say five
pieces since this is a workday let's
assume most people would just go out
once for work so let's say 70% of the
population goes out once for group three
those going out twice we'll say 10
pieces 25% of the population falls into
this category
for 2.2 assume that there is no specific
preference of color so out of 10 colors
seven basic colors plus black white and
gray there's a 10% chance that each
piece is red step four
consolidating now we've got a lot of
different pieces of estimation and data
to consolidate in this example I'm going
to consolidate in a way that is easiest
to follow not necessarily going Bottom
up from the structure let's calculate
the number of people people wearing red
in each group staying at home 5% of the
New York City population stays at home
which is equivalent to 1 million people
each of them wear two pieces of clothing
their chance of wearing red in each
piece is
10% therefore the number of people
staying at home and wearing red is 1
million * 2 * 10% which equals
200,000 going out once with a similar
approach we can calculate there are 14
million people going out once on Monday
each of them wears five pieces of
clothing their chance of wearing red and
each piece is 10% the number of people
going out once and wearing red then is
14 million * 5 * 10% which is 7 million
going out twice we have 5 million people
going out twice with each of them
wearing 10 pieces their chance of
wearing red in each piece is 10% % again
the final result would be calculated 5
million * 10 * 10% which equals 5
million so in total there are about 12.2
million people in New York City wearing
red on a typical
Monday okay so that was a fairly
complicated example but I hope you were
able to follow now next to the four-step
approach let's talk about some killer
tips and tricks in guesstimate and
Market sizing questions these tips and
tricks are there to save you time and
gain positive Impressions from the
interviewer number one when coming up
with estimations do your brain a favor
and come up with rounded and easy to
calculate numbers margins of error in
these questions are usually big enough
to accommodate this notice that in the
above example I used first of all New
York City's 20 million in population
instead of the exact 23 million I also
said that there are 10 colors instead of
7 8 9 or 11 this simple tip can save you
a ton of time and hassle number two even
if the question is pretty clear show the
interview that you have the habit of
clarifying this is why we incorporate
this tip into the four-step approach so
you will never forget this number three
explicitly do sanity checks of the
intermediate and final results ask
yourself does this number make sense is
it appropriate for example if the final
answer turns out to be something like
122 million instead of 12 12.2 million
your alarm Bells should definitely be
ringing not only will this prevent you
from silly mistakes but also shows that
you are very careful and organized
candidate interviewers love to see this
number four guesstimation and Market
sizing questions can be complicated and
hard to follow at times make sure you
present your answer to the interviewer
in a structured way and with visual aids
you should literally draw out different
components of your structure and point
to each one as you speak no matter how
appropriate your approach is if the
interviewer can't follow you would just
miss a chance to show off your
qualifications well I hope this has been
a helpful lesson on a very popular topic
for any questions please leave them in
the comment section below we will read
and answer each and every one in case
you would like to see more examples of
guesstimate and Market sizing questions
in action we devoted a whole ebook on
our case interview endtoend secret
program for this get that ebook or join
the comprehensive program on the link
below also don't forget to subscribe to
our YouTube channel we have a lot more
exciting topics coming up at management
consulting prep we believe everybody can
make it to Consulting are you a believer